# AIMA3e-Java aima-all
This project is used solely for creating combined releases of all of the AIMA3e projects.

## Check List for creating an AIMA3e-Java Release

### Create the Release 
* Checkout the latest version of all the projects into a clean workspace.
* Ensure the revisions # in the build.properties files of each project are updated.
* Ensure the revision #s in the pom.xml file in aima-core is set to match the one in 
  its build.properties.
* Ensure the README file in each project is updated to reflect the release (i.e.
  update the 'Current Release' section at a minimum). 
* Commit and push changes to GitHib.
* run the `aima-all.release ant task` from the `aima-all` project.

### Update the JavaDoc
* Upload the latest version of the aima-core Javadoc:<br>
  This can be done by running the aima-core.makedocs ant task and replacing
  the current generated docs in the `gh-pages` branch:<br>
  `aima3e/javadoc/aima-core`
* push the changes to the `gh-pages` branch.

### Update the Java Web Start Applications

* Copy the .jar files generated by the aima-all.release ant task from:<br>
  `aima-all/build/release/release` <br>
  to the `gh-pages` branch:<br>
  `aima3e/jars`
* Create a keystore which will be used to sign the copied jars, e.g.:
```
   > keytool -genkey -keystore c:/temp/aima3e.keystore -alias aima3e
   
   > Enter keystore password: <Enter an appropriate password>
   > Re-enter new password: <Same password>
   > What is your first and last name?
       [Unknown]: <Your Name>
   > What is the name of your organizational unit?
       [Unknown]: AIMA-Java Open Source Project 
   > What is the name of your organization?
       [Unknown]: AIMA-Java Open Source Project
   > What is the name of your City or Locality?
       [Unknown]: Mountain View
   > What is the name of your State or Province?
       [Unknown]: California
   > What is the two-letter country code for this unit?
       [Unknown]: US 
   > ...
       [no]: yes
```       
 * Sign each jar individually, e.g.:
```
   > jarsigner -keystore c:/temp/aima3e.keystore aima-core.jar aima3e
   > jarsigner -keystore c:/temp/aima3e.keystore aima-gui.jar aima3e
   > jarsigner -keystore c:/temp/aima3e.keystore aimax-osm.jar aima3e
   > jarsigner -keystore c:/temp/aima3e.keystore commons-compress-1.1.jar aima3e
```   
* push the changes to the `gh-pages` branch.

### Publish the Release to the Maven Central Repository
#### Relevant Background:
* [Deploying via Nexus Guide](http://central.sonatype.org/pages/ossrh-guide.html)
* [The Sonatype/Nexus Open Source Respository](https://oss.sonatype.org/)
* [The Complete Maven Reference](http://www.sonatype.com/books/mvnref-book/reference/public-book.html)
* [The Maven Central Repository](http://search.maven.org/)
* [Maven Home](http://maven.apache.org/)

#### Publish to Maven Central
* Run this command in the aima-core project (currently only releasing this on Maven):<br>
  `mvn -P sonatype-oss-release deploy`
* Close and Release. [Follow Releasing to Central from](http://central.sonatype.org/pages/ossrh-guide.html)
   
## Publish the Release to the AIMA Website
* Upload the .zip file from `aima-all/build/release` to the project's releases page. Delete the previous release.
* Update the AIMA3e `README.md` to indicate the latest revision # (ensure Maven info also updated). 
* Update the `AIMA3e Overview` wiki page with the latest release information.
* Send an email to team members letting them know the release has gone out the door.