#labels Featured
#Getting started using the AIMA-Java projects.

= Setting up your workspace =
The latest release can be downloaded via a single compressed .zip file, from the project's download page: 
  * http://code.google.com/p/aima-java/downloads/list
  
Alternatively you can check out from the project's Subversion repository directly. For this you will require a Subversion client, see the following for useful instructions:
  * http://code.google.com/p/aima-java/source/checkout
  * http://subversion.apache.org/packages.html
  
Your project once downloaded locally should be organized in the following manner:
{{{
<workspace-directory>
    <aima-core>
    <aima-gui>
    <aimax-osm>
    <aima-all>
}}}

*Note 1:* You can ignore the _aima-all_ project, as it is intended to only be used by the project's developers for creating releases and Java Web Start applications.

The _aima-core_ project is the baseline project that contains all the current implementations for the algorithms described in AIMA3e. It only depends on having <a href="http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/index.html">Java Development Kit(JDK) 1.6</a> installed locally to compile the provided Java files. For testing, the _aima-core_ project is also dependent on <a href="http://www.junit.org/">JUnit</a> for running its test suite, the required library .jar file is included in the projects /lib directory. The _aima-gui_ depends on _aima-core_ and contains example GUI and command line demonstrations of the algorithms defined in _aima-core_. The _aimax-osm_ project is an extension project the demonstrates how the core algorithms can be used to create Navigation Applications using map data provided by the <a href="http://www.openstreetmap.org/">Open Street Maps</a> project.

== Command Line using <a href="http://ant.apache.org/">Ant</a> ==

ensure that your Windows PATH
environment variable contains the directory where your JDK's bin is, e.g.:

C:\Program Files\Java\jdk1.6.0\bin

== Using the Eclipse IDE ==
Note: You do not need to use the provided <a href="http://ant.apache.org/">Ant</a> build.xml files if you are using the Eclipse IDE.

=== Importing a downloaded release ===
 
=== Using the Subversion repository directly ===

http://subclipse.tigris.org/

=== Some useful tips ===
  # Useful views to use in Eclipse.
  # References->Workspace


Running Test and Programs

aima.test.core.unit.AllAIMAUnitTestSuite


For programs, you'll need to look in the aima-gui project, which has GUIs
and command line demos that you can run, e.g.:

aima.gui.demo.search.EightPuzzleDemo

just ensure the .java you open has a:

public static void main(String[] args) {